[docs] Refactor 'Intercept HTTP Requests' (#4950)
DevExpress/testcafe: docs/articles/documentation/guides/advanced-guides/intercept-http-requests.md

---
layout: docs
title: Intercept HTTP Requests
permalink: /documentation/guides/advanced-guides/intercept-http-requests.html
---
# Intercept HTTP Requests

> This section describes how to handle HTTP requests in your tests. TestCafe allows you to log them and mock the responses out of the box. You can also create a custom HTTP request hook, which allows you, for instance, to emulate authentications like **Kerberos** or **Client Certificate Authentication**.

Reviewer: > log them

Log whom? :) 

Also, are the responses coming out of the box, or is it an out-of-the-box feature?

**Example**

```js
import { Selector, RequestLogger } from 'testcafe';
import fs from 'fs';
import path from 'path';

const url = 'https://demos.devexpress.com/ASPxGridViewDemos/Exporting/Exporting.aspx';

const logger = RequestLogger({ url, method: 'post' }, {
    logResponseHeaders: true,
    logResponseBody:    true
});

fixture `Export`
    .page(url)
    .requestHooks(logger);

test('export to csv', async t => {
    const exportToCSVButton = Selector('span').withText('Export to CSV');

    await t
        .click(exportToCSVButton)
        .expect(logger.contains(r => r.response.statusCode === 200)).ok();

    // After clicking 'Export', the response comes as a gziped CSV.
    // The browser unpacks the archive and gives you the file that was inside.
    // The test receives the archive as is.
    const filePath = path.join(__dirname, 'exported-grid.zip');

    console.log(filePath);
    console.log(logger.requests[0].response.headers);

    fs.writeFileSync(filePath, logger.requests[0].response.body);

    // Here you can use 3rd party modules to
    // unpack the archive, parse CSV and check the data.

>     // Or you can just manually verify the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Or you can just verify the file manually.
```

});
```

## Mock HTTP Requests

Use TestCafe [request mocker](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/README.md) to substitute infrastructure that is difficult to deploy or that you do not want to use for test purposes. This can be a third-party service that charges you per pageview or an analytics service that should not log page views tests generate. The mocker can intercept requests to this resource and emulate the response as needed.

> To create a request mocker, use the [RequestMock](../../reference/test-api/global/requestmock.md) constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [RequestMock](../../reference/test-api/global/requestmock.md) constructor to create a request mocker.
```

```js
var mock = RequestMock();
```

> Then call the [onRequestTo](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/onrequestto.md) and [respond](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/respond.md) methods in a chain. The [onRequestTo](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/onrequestto.md) method specifies a request to intercept, while the [respond](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/respond.md) method specifies the mocked response for this request. Call these methods repeatedly to provide a mock for every request you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then call the [onRequestTo](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/onrequestto.md) and [respond](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/respond.md) methods in a chained fashion. The [onRequestTo](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/onrequestto.md) method specifies a request to intercept, while the [respond](../../reference/test-api/requestmock/respond.md) method specifies the mocked response for this request. Call these methods repeatedly to provide a mock for every request you need.
```

fixture `My fixture`
    .page('http://example.com')
    .requestHooks(customHook);

test('My test', async t => {
        // test actions
});
```

**Example**

```js
import { Selector, RequestHook } from 'testcafe';

class JwtBearerAuthorization extends RequestHook {
    constructor () {
        // No URL filtering applied to this hook
        // so it will be used for all requests.
        super();
    }

    onRequest (e) {
        e.requestOptions.headers['Authorization'] = 'generate token here';
    }

    onResponse (e) {
        // This method must also be overridden,
        // but you can leave it blank.
    }
}

const jwtBearerAuthorization = new JwtBearerAuthorization();

fixture `Fixture`
    .page('<website URL>')
    .requestHooks(jwtBearerAuthorization);

test('basic', async t => {
    /* some actions */
});
```

## Attach Hooks to Tests and Fixtures

To attach a hook to a test or fixture, use the [fixture.requestHooks](../../reference/test-api/fixture/requesthooks.md) and [test.requestHooks](../../reference/test-api/test/requesthooks.md) methods. A hook attached to a fixture handles requests from all tests in the fixture.

> > Hooks attached to a fixture are invoked before hooks attached to its tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Hooks attached to a fixture are invoked before the hooks attached to individual tests.
```
